Hello there!
It’s a pleasure to welcome you
to our program.
We have a few updates to share,
and then we’ll watch
an encouraging interview.
We’re excited that two brothers
were recently released
from prison in Russia
after completing their sentences.
On July 19, 2023,
69-year-old Brother Yuriy Savelyev
was released.
He spent over four and a half years
behind bars.
Dozens of brothers and sisters
welcomed him outside the prison.
We’re very happy for him
and his loved ones.
And on July 26, 2023,
Brother Sergey Klimov
was released after some five years in prison.
He was warmly welcomed
by his family and friends.
We rejoice with you all!
Jesus said at Revelation 2:10:
“The Devil will keep on throwing
some of you into prison.”
But Jesus also said:
“Do not be afraid.”
The Watchtower  of July 2019 stated:
“When our enemies ban our worship,
“they hope to make us
afraid to serve Jehovah.
“In addition to the ban,
they may circulate false stories,
“send officials to search our homes,
“drag us to court,
or even imprison some of us.
“They hope that we will be terrified
because they managed
to put a small number of us in prison.”
Yet, what do we learn
from these two dear brothers in Russia?
They have successfully endured
their imprisonment
and have come out victorious.
Truly, Jesus was right
when he said we have no reason to be afraid.
Our brothers and sisters around the world
are enjoying
the “Exercise Patience”! Convention.
For our young ones,
this may be the first convention
they’ll remember attending in person.
Let’s hear from a few of them.
Today I’m happy
because I’m at the convention,
and I can see everybody again.
I like being here at the convention
because I get to meet
the brothers and sisters that are here.
I like taking pictures
with my new friends.
I’m happy to be at the convention today
because I can hug my brothers and sisters.
And I also like the songs.
They relax me a lot.
I helped clean
with the friends in our congregation.
It was fun.
My family and friends
are all here surrounding me,
loving Jehovah just like I do.
To me, I like to be here
because I can see the videos
and also see all the brothers.
I definitely think
being in person is much better.
I learn lots more things
I didn’t really focus on when I was at home.
I like coming to the convention
better than watching it on the TV.
What beautiful comments!
We’re so proud of all you parents.
The effort you make
to bring your little ones to the convention
reminds us of what Joseph and Mary did.
Year after year,
they brought Jesus and his siblings
to the festival in Jerusalem.
And it was worth the effort!
Likewise, you parents are giving
a beautiful gift to your children
by bringing them to the convention.
It must warm Jehovah’s heart
to see you all in attendance.
On September 1, a new service year begins.
And so does our worldwide campaign
to feature The Watchtower  No. 2 of 2020,
entitled “What Is God’s Kingdom?”
Publishers who serve as auxiliary pioneers
can choose a 15- or 30-hour requirement.
We need the Kingdom more than ever before!
And it’s a joy for us to share
this vital message with our neighbors.
Many congregations will soon be informed
of the dates
for the 2024 regional conventions.
We’re pleased to inform you that the theme
of the 2024 convention program is
“Declare the Good News!”
It is based on 1 Corinthians 9:16,
which says:
“Now if I am declaring the good news,
“it is no reason for me to boast,
“for necessity is laid upon me.
“Really, woe to me
if I do not declare the good news!”
With so much bad news today,
we know you’ll enjoy all three days
of this thrilling convention
from the very first word on Friday.
Speaking of good news,
we rejoiced when 28
of our dear brothers and sisters
were released from prison in Eritrea
on December 4, 2020.
They had been in prison
for between 5 and 26 years!
Why were they imprisoned?
For their Christian neutrality.
Brother Negede Teklemariam
was among those targeted
for taking a neutral stand.
In 1994,
when Negede was only 21 years old,
soldiers abducted him from his home.
He spent a total of 26 years in two prisons
along with Brothers Paulos Eyasu
and Isaac Mogos.
Since their release from prison in 2020,
Isaac was baptized
and the three brothers
continue to serve Jehovah faithfully.
As you watch
the following heartwarming interview,
let’s notice what helped Negede
to keep his integrity.
On September 17, 1994, at about 1:00 a.m.,
three soldiers came and knocked on our gates.
They did not give me an opportunity
to speak or change my clothes.
My mother said to me:
“Take courage!
“Jehovah is with you.
As long as you remain loyal to him,
Jehovah will safeguard you.”
My mother kept repeating those words
as I was taken away.
Sawa is a military training camp.
It’s a huge camp, and within the camp,
there is a little prison compound.
It’s only for a lack of words
that we call it a prison.
There are no words for it.
It’s not a humane way
to treat another human being.
The room,
which is made of corrugated metal sheets,
during the day gets extremely hot.
There was no ventilation in the room—no bed.
We slept on the ground.
Food provided by the government was meager
—bread, dry lentils, sometimes soup.
In prison, we were tied with ropes
and endured cruel treatment by the guards,
extreme physical beatings, and forced labor.
They made us work extra hard
in order to tire us out
so we would give up
and do what they wanted us to do.
What I found the most challenging
in the 23 years at Sawa
was that even to relieve yourself
of your natural body functions,
you were not able to do it
when you needed to.
We had to get permission
to relieve ourselves,
and there was always a soldier
guarding and watching us
—that is the worst kind of life.
We never had a bathroom.
There was never a hope
of one day being released,
let alone even going to face a court
that would sentence us.
They were just waiting for us to go insane
or to die
because of lack of medical treatment.
Something that helped me keep going
was the scripture
that was the daily text
of the day I was arrested.
The scripture was John 16:33.
That scripture, in part, mentions:
“In the world you will have tribulation,
but take courage!”
This scripture
was a source of encouragement and comfort
not only to us prisoners but also to all
the brothers who were left behind.
The soldiers took me to the wilderness
and told me to dig a hole.
They set before us two choices.
They said: “We have tried many things on you,
but you didn’t change.
“The government has decided to execute you.
“Put on the military uniform
and be soldiers like the others,
“or if you continue saying
“‘I belong to God’s Kingdom’
or ‘I belong to the heavenly Kingdom,’
you will be put in this hole.”
They put me in the hole.
The hole was deep enough
for only my neck to be above ground.
Not only is the strong daytime sun
beating on my head,
I’m buried in sand
that the sun has been beating on all day.
I was sweating
and slowly starting to pass out.
There was a car with military personnel
traveling from a distance.
They could see a body buried
with only his neck above the ground.
This soldier was not from the military camp;
he was simply passing by.
He was a high-ranking military official.
I didn’t know him personally;
he didn’t know me.
He asked the men:
“How did this even happen?
“Is that even allowed
—to do this to a human being?
Who gave you the order to bury him alive?”
One thing I and even those
who were with me learned from this is
that when a person goes into prison,
he may feel like he is alone,
but as long as we stay faithful to Jehovah,
we trust him to do something.
I have seen the scripture
in Romans chapter 8 from verse 35 on
being fulfilled in our case.
Jehovah helped us.
Truly nothing can separate us from his love.
There was a lady and a gentleman
who were working in the prison
—the male was a guard,
and she was a secretary.
They talked among themselves.
They reasoned: “It looks like the government
is going to kill them.
“Why don’t we record what we see
and take their story outside?
“At least we can say to their families,
‘They were here,
and this is what they looked like.’”
So they decided to take a picture
and show it to our families
and to the rest of the world.
You can see in the picture of Paulos
that his hands are full of mud.
At the time,
we were doing manual labor outside,
moving rocks and things.
We didn’t want our family members
or our parents
who saw the picture
to see us sad and dejected.
But, rather, we wanted them to know
we’re happy to be persecuted for the Christ.
That’s why we made an effort to smile.
Throughout our time in prison,
prayer was a tool
that really helped us through,
especially in the first few years.
We had no access to spiritual food
—no Bible, no publications.
The only thing we had was prayer.
One specific thing
I remember praying early on
was for Jehovah
to let us be free from prison.
But as the years went by,
I personally changed my prayers to:
“Help me, Jehovah, to endure.
Help me to be able to put up with
the inconveniences of prison life.”
I never anticipated
I would be freed that day or that year.
I was able to see that Jehovah can deliver
his people out of trialsome situations.
Anytime he chooses is the right time.
From those 26 years,
I’ve learned lots of lessons.
I learned that Jehovah
listens to our concerns.
And to be persecuted for his name’s sake
is of greater reward than the inconveniences.
We don’t know what tomorrow will bring
and what might change,
so there’s no good
that comes from being afraid
of prison or being afraid of persecution.
We can prepare for persecution.
Jehovah will help us endure any trial.
We just have to ask for his help.
Whatever circumstances
(expected or unexpected) that arise,
this is a lesson I learned:
Jehovah will help us endure.
Many individuals kept supporting us
through letters
and other supplies from everywhere.
The tireless prayers of our brothers
and sisters throughout the world,
even young ones who couldn’t even pronounce
our names but were praying for us,
strengthened us.
Continue praying,
because there are many others
who are in various prisons now.
Thank you for sharing
your experience with us, Negede.
It’s so encouraging to hear
how Jehovah sustained you
despite such brutal treatment.
You are an integrity keeper,
and we love you very much!
I know I’m not alone in saying
that we supplicated Jehovah in your behalf
many times over the course of the 26 years
that you and the other brothers
were in prison.
And we continue to pray
for the 32 brothers and sisters in Eritrea
who are still imprisoned for their faith.
What are some lessons that we can
take away from Negede’s interview?
Briefly, here are three:
(1) Read the daily text every day,
(2) rely on Jehovah in prayer,
and (3) you can be joyful
despite persecution.
We’re happy to inform you
that the full interview with Negede
will be made available
on jw.org in the future.
As we reflect on Negede’s endurance,
we’re reminded of all those
who are currently enduring persecution
or imprisonment for their faith.
To you brothers and sisters
enduring persecution in Eritrea, Russia,
and in all other areas of the world,
we are praying for you
and we love you very much!
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting®.